Fall Comfort / Fall Film Associations

Some films only make sense at a very specific time of year. It's not exclusively about subject matter, as some holiday films have a similar level of wit and insight far beyond their featured day, as anyone who has seen "Groundhog Day" outside of February may attest. The American fall holidays are Halloween and Thanksgiving; it's a time for harvest, and for the slight dread of winter. I find this sea of stimulus to be most thoroughly and enjoyably put to film by Patrick McHale, in "Over The Garden Wall". It's not technically a film, but a ten-episode series of eleven minute-long episodes. Each year, sometime between September and October, I find watching the ten of them in one two-hour burst to be movielike, and a nice, firm way of shifting myself from Summer-mode to Fall-mode. 

The series is very eerie, and very tenuously set during Halloween, but is predominantly a celebration of autumn, full of beautifully rendered natural settings, and catchy, original folk jams like the now classic "Potatoes and Molasses". I've known many people with a similar yearly relationship to this truly one-of-a-kind series, and I'd encourage any reader unfamiliar with OTGW to give it a go, and see what all the hype is about.

Patrick McHale is a Cal-Arts alum, who worked on Gravity Falls, Flapjack, and Adventure Time. While some argue that the now ubiquitous "Cal-Arts style" of thin-lined animation that his cohort ushered in is overly simplistic, I grew up with it, and find it entirely pleasant and nostalgic. "Over The Garden Wall" was digitally animated, resembling its contemporaries (like Craig of the Creek and Steven Universe) in terms of character design. However, many backgrounds througout were drawn by hand before being painted over digitally. The series is almost entirely set in the woods, where the main characters are lost, and the serene autumn backdrops serve as a beautiful stage for the story. 

Wirt and Greg, the two main characters, are two cute children who dress a bit like gnomes, each with a very silly hat. When I do my yearly viewing, I like to wear a random household object on my head, like a colander or empty cereal box, in solidarity with them. In contrast, the main antagonist of the show, a vague anthromorphization of grief known only as "The Beast," is an emphemeral, shadowy, eldritch horror, with ghastly, piercing eyes like a car's headlights. The series uses the distinct beauty of the woods in autumn to its advantage, while also exploiting the natural fear of the unknown to unnerve viewers in a mild enough way that the no-scary-movies crowd could likely tolerate it.

A Hendrix Student who viewed this series for the first time this autumn said that he appreciated the timelessness of the series, noting that there aren't any real clues in the forest telling you what century it takes place in. He appreciated the overarching theme of forgiveness, and the acceptance of others while considering their imperfections. The raucous levity of the series stuck with him for days after. Without giving too much of the plot away, our protagonists grapple with death and the dead many times throughout the run of the show, and despite the inherent levity of animation, the autumnal associations with death are present, and not taken lightly. The lost boys must fight to maintain hope that they will find home, which is made tangible by the coming frost. Wirt and Greg's familial bond is clear and not overwhelming, in a realistically heartwarming way appropriate for Thanksgiving.

The pilot of this series turned ten years old this September 9th. This anniversary is as good a time as any to visit, or revisit, this fantastic limited series. Over The Garden Wall, while no longer available on HBOMax, is still on Hulu. 